.TH "APT-CONFIG" 8 "14 Jun 2006" "APT-RPM" "apt-config"
.SH NAME
apt-config - APT Configuration Query program

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBapt-config\fR [\fBoptions\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIconfig\fR=\fIstring\fR] [\fB-c\fR=\fIfile\fR] \fBcommand\fR

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBapt-config\fR is an internal program used by various portions of the APT
suite to provide consistent configurability.  It accesses the main
configuration file \fI/etc/apt/apt.conf\fR(5) in a manner that is easy to use
by scripted applications.

.SH "COMMANDS"
Unless the \fB-h\fR, or \fB--help\fR option is given, one of the commands
below must be present.
.TP
\fBshell\fR
Used to access the configuration information from a shell script.  It is
given pairs of arguments, the first being a shell variable and the second
the configuration value to query.  As output it lists a series of shell
assignments commands for each present value. In a shell script it should be
used like:
.IP
.nf
OPTS="-f"
RES=`apt-config shell OPTS MyApp::Options`
eval $RES
.fi
.IP
This will set the shell environment variable $OPTS to the value of
\fIMyApp::Options\fR with a default of \fB-f\fR. .IP The configuration item
may be postfixed with a /[fdbi].  \fBf\fR returns file names, \fBd\fR
returns directories, \fBb\fR returns true or false and \fBi\fR returns an
integer.  Each of the returns is normalized and verified internally.

.TP
\fBdump\fR
Shows the contents of the configuration space.

.SH "OPTIONS"
All command-line options may be set using the configuration file, the
descriptions indicate the configuration option to set.  For boolean
options you can override the config file by using something like 
\fB-f-\fR,\fB--no-f\fR, \fB-f=no\fR or several other variations.

.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR
Show a short usage summary.

.TP
\fB-v\fR, \fB--version\fR
Show the program version.

.TP
\fB-c\fR, \fB--config-file\fR
Configuration File.  Specify a configuration file to use.  
The program will read the default configuration file and then this 
configuration file.  See \fIapt.conf\fR(5) for syntax information.      

.TP
\fB-o\fR, \fB--option\fR
Set a Configuration Option.  This will set an arbitrary configuration 
option.  The syntax is \fB-o Foo::Bar=bar\fR.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fIapt.conf\fR(5)

.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
\fBapt-config\fR returns zero on normal operation, decimal 100 on error.

.SH "BUGS"
Reporting bugs in APT-RPM is best done in the APT-RPM mailinglist at
http://apt-rpm.org/mailinglist.shtml.

.SH "AUTHOR"
Maintainer and contributor information can be found in the credits page
http://apt-rpm.org/about.shtml of APT-RPM.
