.TH "APT-CDROM" 8 "14 Jun 2006" "APT-RPM" "apt-cdrom"
.SH NAME
apt-cdrom - APT CDROM management utility

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBapt-cdrom\fR [\fBoptions\fR] [\fB-d\fR=\fImount_point\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIconfig\fR=\fIstring\fR] [\fB-c\fR=\fIfile\fR] \fBcommand\fR

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBapt-cdrom\fR is used to add a new CDROM to APT's list of available
sources.  \fBapt-cdrom\fR takes care of determining the structure of the
disc as well as correcting for several possible mis-burns and verifying the
index files.
.LP
It is necessary to use \fBapt-cdrom\fR to add CDs to the APT system; it
cannot be done by hand.  Furthermore each disk in a multi-CD set must be
inserted and scanned separately to account for possible mis-burns.

.SH "COMMANDS"
Unless the \fB-h\fR, or \fB--help\fR option is given one of the commands
below must be present.

.TP
\fBadd\fR
Used to add a new disc to the source list.  It will unmount the CDROM
device, prompt for a disk to be inserted and then proceed to scan it and
copy the index files.  If the disc does not have a proper \fI.disk/\fR
directory you will be prompted for a descriptive title.
.IP
APT uses a CDROM ID to track which disc is currently in the drive and
maintains a database of these IDs in \fI/var/lib/apt/cdroms.list\fR.

.TP
\fBident\fR
A debugging tool to report the identity of the current disc as well as the
stored file name.

.SH "OPTIONS"
All command-line options may be set using the configuration file, the
descriptions indicate the configuration option to set.  For boolean options
you can override the config file by using something like
\fB-f-\fR,\fB--no-f\fR, \fB-f=no\fR or several other variations.

.TP
\fB-d\fR, \fB--cdrom\fR
Mount point.  Specify the location to mount the cdrom.  This mount point
must be listed in \fI/etc/fstab\fR and properly configured.
.IP
Configuration Item: \fIAcquire::cdrom::mount\fR.

.TP
\fB-r\fR, \fB--rename\fR
Rename a disc.  Change the label of a disk or override the disk's given
label.  This option will cause \fBapt-cdrom\fR to prompt for a new label.
.IP
Configuration Item: \fIAPT::CDROM::Rename\fR.

.TP
\fB-m\fR, \fB--no-mount\fR
No mounting.  Prevent \fBapt-cdrom\fR from mounting and unmounting the mount
point.
.IP
Configuration Item: \fIAPT::CDROM::NoMount\fR.

.TP
\fB-f\fR, \fB--fast\fR
Fast Copy.  Assume the package files are valid and do not check every
package.  This option should be used only if \fBapt-cdrom\fR has been run on
this disc before and did not detect any errors.
.IP
Configuration Item: \fIAPT::CDROM::Fast\fR.

.TP
\fB-a\fR, \fB--thorough\fR
Thorough Package Scan.  This option may be needed with some old discs that
have Package files in strange places.  It takes much longer to scan the CD
but will pick them all up.

.TP
\fB-n\fR, \fB--just-print\fR, \fB--recon\fR, \fB--no-act\fR
No Changes.  Do not change the \fIsources.list\fR(5) file and do not write
index files.  Everything is still checked however.
.IP
Configuration Item: \fIAPT::CDROM::NoAct\fR.

.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR
Show a short usage summary.

.TP
\fB-v\fR, \fB--version\fR
Show the program version.

.TP
\fB-c\fR, \fB--config-file\fR
Configuration File.  Specify a configuration file to use. The program will
read the default configuration file and then this configuration file.  See
\fIapt.conf\fR(5) for syntax information.      

.TP
\fB-o\fR, \fB--option\fR
Set a Configuration Option.  This will set an arbitrary configuration
option.  The syntax is \fB-o Foo::Bar=bar\fR\.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fIapt.conf\fR(5), \fBapt-get\fR(8), \fIsources.list\fR(5)

.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
\fBapt-cdrom\fR returns zero on normal operation, decimal 100 on error.

.SH "BUGS"
Reporting bugs in APT-RPM is best done in the APT-RPM mailinglist at
http://apt-rpm.org/mailinglist.shtml.

.SH "AUTHOR"
Maintainer and contributor information can be found in the credits page
http://apt-rpm.org/about.shtml of APT-RPM.
