.\" There are a lot of Debianisms in this file that should probably
.\" be removed, but I'm not sure what to use as the "default" RPM-based
.\" reference distro (Fedora?  RH?  A distro that uses apt-rpm by
.\" default? (vdanen)

.TH "APT_PREFERENCES" 5 "14 Jun 2006" "APT-RPM" "apt_preferences"
.SH NAME
apt_preferences - Preference control file for APT

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The APT preferences file \fI/etc/apt/preferences\fR can be used to control
which versions of packages will be selected for installation.
.LP
Several versions of a package may be available for installation when the
\fIsources.list\fR(5) file contains references to more than one distribution
(for example, stable and testing). APT assigns a priority to each version
that is available. Subject to dependency constraints, \fBapt-get\fR(8)
selects the version with the highest priority for installation. The APT
preferences file overrides the priorities that APT assigns to package
versions by default, thus giving the user control over which one is selected
for installation.
.LP
Several instances of the same version of a package may be available when the
\fIsources.list\fR(5) file contains references to more than one source. In
this case \fBapt-get\fR(8) downloads the instance listed earliest in the
\fIsources.list\fR(5) file. The APT preferences file does not affect the
choice of instance, only the choice of version.

.SH "APT'S DEFAULT PRIORITY ASSIGNMENTS"
If there is no preferences file or if there is no entry in the file that
applies to a particular version then the priority assigned to that version
is the priority of the distribution to which that version belongs.  It is
possible to single out a distribution, "the target release", which receives
a higher priority than other distributions do by default. The target release
can be set on the \fBapt-get\fR(8) command line or in the APT configuration
file \fI/etc/apt/apt.conf\fR(5). For example,
.IP
\fBapt-get install -t testing some-package\fR
.LP
To configure the default release in the configuration file, use:
.IP
\fIAPT::Default-Release\fR "stable";
.LP
If the target release has been specified then APT uses the following
algorithm to set the priorities of the versions of a package.  Assign:
.TP
\fBpriority 100\fR
to the version that is already installed (if any).
.TP
\fBpriority 500\fR
to the versions that are not installed and do not belong to the target
release.
.TP
\fBpriority 990\fR
to the versions that are not installed and belong to the target release.
.LP
If the target release has not been specified then APT simply assigns
priority 100 to all installed package versions and priority 500 to all
uninstalled package versions.
.LP
APT then applies the following rules, listed in order of precedence, to
determine which version of a package to install:
.TP 0.2i
\(bu
Never downgrade unless the priority of an available version exceeds 1000. 
("Downgrading" is installing a less recent version of a package in place of
a more recent version.  Note that none of APT's default priorities exceeds
1000; such high priorities can only be set in the preferences file.  Note
also that downgrading a package can be risky.)
.TP 0.2i
\(bu
Install the highest priority version.
.TP 0.2i
\(bu
If two or more versions have the same priority, install the most recent one
(that is, the one with the higher version number).
.TP 0.2i
\(bu
If two or more versions have the same priority and version number but either
the packages differ in some of their metadata or the \fB--reinstall\fR
option is given, install the uninstalled one.
.LP
In a typical situation, the installed version of a package (priority 100) is
not as recent as one of the versions available from the sources listed in
the \fIsources.list\fR(5) file (priority 500 or 990).  Then the package will
be upgraded when \fBapt-get install some-package\fR or \fBapt-get upgrade\fR
is executed.
.LP
More rarely, the installed version of a package is \fBmore\fR recent than
any of the other available versions.  The package will not be downgraded
when \fBapt-get install some-package\fR or \fBapt-get upgrade\fR is executed.
.LP
Sometimes the installed version of a package is more recent than the version
belonging to the target release, but not as recent as a version belonging to
some other distribution.  Such a package will indeed be upgraded when
\fBapt-get install some-package\fR or \fBapt-get upgrade\fR is executed,
because at least \fBone\fR of the available versions has a higher priority
than the installed version.

.SH "THE EFFECT OF APT PREFERENCES"
The APT preferences file allows the system administrator to control the
assignment of priorities.  The file consists of one or more multi-line
records separated by blank lines.  Records can have one of two forms, a
specific form and a general form.
.TP 0.2i
\(bu
The specific form assigns a priority (a "Pin-Priority") to a specified
package and specified version or version range.  For example, the following
record assigns a high priority to all versions of the \fIperl\fR package
whose version number begins with "5.8".
.IP
.nf
Package: perl
Pin: version 5.8*
Pin-Priority: 1001
.fi
.TP 0.2i
\(bu
The general form assigns a priority to all of the package versions in a
given distribution (that is, to all the versions of packages that are listed
in a certain \fIRelease\fR file) or to all of the package versions coming
from a particular Internet site, as identified by the site's fully qualified
domain name.
.IP
This general-form entry in the APT preferences file applies only to groups
of packages.  For example, the following record assigns a high priority to
all package versions available from the local site.
.IP
.nf
Package: *
Pin: origin ""
Pin-Priority: 999
.fi
.IP
A note of caution: the keyword used here is "origin". This should not be
confused with the Origin of a distribution as specified in a \fIRelease\fR
file.  What follows the "Origin:" tag in a \fIRelease\fR file is not an
Internet address but an author or vendor name, such as "Debian" or "Ximian".
.IP
The following record assigns a low priority to all package versions
belonging to any distribution whose Archive name is "unstable".
.IP
.nf
Package: *
Pin: release a=unstable
Pin-Priority: 50
.fi
.IP
The following record assigns a high priority to all package versions
belonging to any release whose Archive name is "stable" and whose release
Version number is "3.0".
.IP
.nf
Package: *
Pin: release a=unstable, v=3.0
Pin-Priority: 50
.fi

.SH "HOW APT INTERPRETS PRIORITIES"
.PP
Priorities (P) assigned in the APT preferences file must be positive or
negative integers.  They are interpreted as follows (roughly speaking):
.TP
\fBP > 1000\fR
causes a version to be installed even if this constitutes a downgrade of the
package.
.TP
\fB990 < P <=1000\fR
causes a version to be installed even if it does not come from the target
release, unless the installed version is more recent.
.TP
\fB500 < P <=990\fR
causes a version to be installed unless there is a version available
belonging to the target release or the installed version is more recent.
.TP
\fB100 < P <=500\fR
causes a version to be installed unless there is a version available
belonging to some other distribution or the installed version is more recent.
.TP
\fB0 < P <=100\fR
causes a version to be installed only if there is no installed version of
the package.
.TP
\fBP < 0\fR
prevents the version from being installed.
.LP
If any specific-form records match an available package version then the
first such record determines the priority of the package version. Failing
that, if any general-form records match an available package version then
the first such record determines the priority of the package version.  
.LP
For example, suppose the APT preferences file contains the three records
presented earlier:
.IP
.nf
Package: perl
Pin: version 5.8*
Pin-Priority: 1001

Package: *
Pin: origin ""
Pin-Priority: 999

Package: *
Pin: release unstable
Pin-Priority: 50
.fi
.LP
Then:
.TP 0.2i
\(bu
The most recent available version of the perl package will be installed, so
long as that version's version number begins with "5.8".  If \fBany\fR 5.8*
version of perl is available and the installed version is 5.9*, then perl
will be downgraded.
.TP 0.2i
\(bu
A version of any package other than perl that is available from the local
system has priority over other versions, even versions belonging to the
target release.
.TP 0.2i
\(bu
A version of a package whose origin is not the local system but some other
site listed in \fIsources.list\fR(5) and which belongs to an unstable
distribution is only installed if it is selected for installation and no
version of the package is already installed.

.SH "DETERMINATION OF PACKAGE VERSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROPERTIES"
The locations listed in the \fIsources.list\fR(5) file should provide
\fIPackages\fR and \fIRelease\fR files to describe the packages available at
that location.
.LP
\fBThe\fR \fIPackages\fR \fbFile\fR
.LP
The \fIPackages\fR file is normally found in the directory
\fI.../dists/dist-name/component/arch\fR.  For example:
\fI.../dists/stable/main/binary-i386/Packages\fR. It consists of a series of
multi-line records, one for each package available in that directory.  Only
two lines in each record are relevant for setting APT priorities:
.TP
\fBPackage:\fR
this line gives the package name.
.TP
\fBVersion:\fR
this line gives the version number for the named package.
.LP
\fBThe\fR \fIRelease\fR \fBFile\fR
.LP
The \fIRelease\fR file is normally found in the directory
\fI.../dists/dist-name\fR.  For example: \fI.../dists/stable/Release\fR, or
\fI.../dists/woody/Release\fR. It consists of a single multi-line record
which applies to \fBall\fR of the packages in the directory tree below its
parent.  Unlike the \fIPackages\fR file, nearly all of the lines in a
\fIRelease\fR file are relevant for setting APT priorities:
.TP
\fBArchive:\fR
this line names the archive to which all the packages in the directory tree
belong. For example, the line "Archive: stable" specifies that all of the
packages in the directory tree below the parent of the \fIRelease\fR file
are in a stable archive.  Specifying this value in the APT preferences file
would require the line:
.IP
.nf
Pin: release a=stable
.fi
.TP
\fBVersion:\fR
this line names the release version.  For example, the packages in the tree
might belong to Debian GNU/Linux release version 3.0.  Note that there is
normally no version number for the testing and unstable distributions
because they have not been released yet.  Specifying this in the APT
preferences file would require one of the following lines.
.IP
.nf
Pin: release v=3.0
Pin: release a=stable, v=3.0
Pin: release 3.0
.fi
.TP
\fBComponent:\fR
this line names the licensing component associated with the packages in the
directory tree of the \fIRelease\fR file. For example, the line "Component:
main" specifies that all the packages in the directory tree are from the
main component, which entails that they are licensed under terms listed in
the Debian Free Software Guidelines.  Specifying this component in the APT
preferences file would require the line:
.IP
.nf
Pin: release c=main
.fi
.TP
\fBOrigin:\fR
this line names the originator of the packages in the directory tree of the
\fIRelease\fR file.  Most commonly, this is Debian.  Specifying this origin
in the APT preferences file would require the line:
.IP
.nf
Pin: release o=Debian
.fi
.TP
\fBLabel:\fR
this line names the label of the packages in the directory tree of the
\fIRelease\fR file.  Most commonly, this is Debian.  Specifying this label
in the APT preferences file would require the line:
.IP
.nf
Pin: release l=Debian
.fi
.LP
All of the \fIPackages\fR and \fIRelease\fR files retrieved from locations
listed in the \fIsources.list\fR(5) file are stored in the directory
\fI/var/lib/apt/lists\fR, or in the file named by the variable
\fIDir::State::Lists\fR in the \fIapt.conf\fR(5) file. For example, the file
\fIdebian.lcs.mit.edu_debian_dists_unstable_contrib_binary-i386_Release\fR
contains the \fIRelease\fR file retrieved from the site debian.lcs.mit.edu
for binary-i386 architecture files from the contrib component of the
unstable distribution.

.SH "OPTIONAL LINES IN AN APT PREFERENCES RECORD"
Each record in the APT preferences file can optionally begin with one or
more lines beginning with the word Explanation:. This provides a place for
comments.
.LP
The Pin-Priority: line in each APT preferences record is optional.  If
omitted, APT assigs a priority of 1 less than the last value specified on a
previous line beginning with Pin-Priority: release ....

.SH "EXAMPLES"
The following examples make use of the component names "stable", "testing",
and "unstable", but these are obviously defined by the vendor and are
determined by the repository layout.
.LP
\fBTracking a "STABLE" distribution\fR
.LP
The following APT preferences file will cause APT to assign a priority
higher than the default (500) to all package versions belonging to a
"stable" distribution and a prohibitively low priority to package versions
belonging to other distributions.
.IP
.nf
Explanation: Uninstall or do not install any Debian-originated
Explanation: package versions other than those in the stable distro
Package: *
Pin: release a=stable
Pin-Priority: 900

Package: *
Pin: release o=Debian
Pin-Priority: -10
.fi
.LP
With a suitable \fIsources.list\fR(5) file and the above preferences file,
any of the following commands will cause APT to upgrade to the latest stable
version(s):
.IP
.nf
\fBapt-get install package-name\fR
\fBapt-get upgrade\fR
\fBapt-get dist-upgrade\fR
.fi
.LP
The following command will cause APT to upgrade the specified package
("package") to the latest version from the "testing" distribution; the
package will not be upgraded again unless this command is given again.
.IP
.nf
\fBapt-get install package/testing\fR
.fi
.LP
\fBTracking a "TESTING" or "UNSTABLE" distribution\fR
.LP
The following APT preferences file will cause APT to assign a high priority
to package versions from the testing distribution, a lower priority to
package versions from the unstable distribution, and a prohibitively low
priority to package versions from other Debian distributions.
.IP
.nf
Package: *
Pin: release a=testing
Pin-Priority: 900

Package: *
Pin: release a=unstable
Pin-Priority: 800

Package: *
Pin: release o=Debian
Pin-Priority: -10
.fi
.LP
With a suitable \fIsources.list\fR(5) file and the above preferences file,
any of the following commands will cause APT to upgrade to the latest
testing version(s):
.IP
.nf
\fBapt-get install package-name\fR
\fBapt-get upgrade\fR
\fBapt-get dist-upgrade\fR
.fi
.LP
The following command will cause APT to upgrade the specified package to the
latest version from the "unstable" distribution. Thereafter, \fBapt-get
upgrade\fR will upgrade the package to the most recent "testing" version if
that is more recent than the installed version, otherwise to the most recent
"unstable" version if that is more recent than the installed version.
.IP
.nf
\fBapt-get install package/unstable\fR
.fi

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
\fBapt-get\fR(8) \fBapt-cache\fR(8) \fIapt.conf\fR(5) \fIsources.list\fR(5)

.SH "BUGS"
Reporting bugs in APT-RPM is best done in the APT-RPM mailinglist at
http://apt-rpm.org/mailinglist.shtml.

.SH "AUTHOR"
Maintainer and contributor information can be found in the credits page
http://apt-rpm.org/about.shtml of APT-RPM.
