.TH "SOURCES.LIST" 5 "14 Jun 2006" "APT-RPM" "sources.list"
.SH NAME
sources.list - Package resource list for APT

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP
The package resource list is used to locate archives of the package
distribution system in use on the system. This control file is located in
\fI/etc/apt/sources.list\fR and additionally any files ending with ".list"
in \fI/etc/apt/sources.list.d\fR are included.
.LP
The source list is designed to support any number of active sources and a
variety of source media.  The file lists one source per line, with the most
preferred source listed first.  The format of each line is: \fItype uri
args\fR.  The first item, \fItype\fR, determines the format for \fIargs\fR. 
\fIuri\fR is a Universal Resource Identifier (URI), which is a superset of
the more specific and well-known Universal Resource Locator, or URL.  The
rest of the line can be marked as a comment by using a #.
.LP
The generic format of \fIsources.list\fR entry is:
.IP
\fBtype baseuri distribution [component comp2 ...]\fR
.LP
Type is one of the types explained below.  Baseuri is the URI to the root of
the given distribution.  Distribution points to a given distribution name,
version and architecture.  The splitting of URI into baseuri and
distribution parts should be done in a way that allows pointing the baseuri
to another mirror without touching distribution. Some types additionally
support a component-entry.
.LP
The following variable substitutions are done on \fIsources.list\fR entries:
$(ARCH) is substituted with the base architecture of the system.
.LP
$(VERSION) is substituted with the distribution version if configured
automatically via \fIApt::DistroVerPkg\fR or manually via the
\fIApt::DistroVersion\fR configuration option.

.SH "THE REPOMD AND REPOMD-SRC TYPES"
The format of \fBrepomd\fR and \fBrepomd-src\fR \fIsources.list\fR entries
is:
.IP
\fBrepomd baseuri distribution\fR
.IP
\fBrepomd-src baseuri distribution\fR
.LP
Repomd repositories do not support a concept of "components"!

.SH "THE RPM AND RPM-SRC TYPES"
The format of \fBrpm\fR and \fBrpm-src\fR \fIsources.list\fR entries is:
.IP
\fBrpm baseuri distribution component [comp2 ...]\fR
.IP
\fBrpm-src baseuri distribution component [comp2 ...]\fR
.LP
At least one component must be specified for \fBrpm\fR and \fBrpm-src\fR
repositories.

.SH "THE RPM-DIR AND RPM-SRC-DIR TYPES"
The format of \fBrpm-dir\fR and \fBrpm-src-dir\fR \fIsources.list\fR entries
is:
.IP
\fBrpm-dir baseuri distribution component [comp2 ...]\fR
.IP
\fBrpm-src-dir baseuri distribution component [comp2 ...]\fR
.LP
At least one component must be specified for \fBrpm\fR and \fBrpm-src\fR
repositories.  \fBrpm-dir\fR and \fBrpm-src-dir\fR only accept file:// uri's!

.SH "URI SPECIFICATION"
The currently recognized URI types are \fBcdrom\fR, \fBfile\fR, \fBhttp\fR,
and \fBftp\fR.

.TP
\fBfile\fR
The \fBfile\fR scheme allows an arbitrary directory in the file system to be
considered an archive.  This is useful for NFS mounts and local mirrors or
archives.

.TP
\fBcdrom\fR
The \fBcdrom\fR scheme allows APT to use a local CDROM drive with media
swapping.  Use the \fBapt-cdrom\fR(8) program to create cdrom entries in the
source list.

.TP
\fBhttp\fR
The \fBhttp\fR scheme specifies an HTTP server for the archive.  If the
"http_proxy" environment variable is set with the format
"http://server:port/", the proxy server specified in "http_proxy" will be
used.  Users of authenticated HTTP/1.1 proxies may use a string of the
format "http://user:pass@server:port/".  Note that this is an insecure
method of authentication.

.TP
\fBftp\fR
The \fBftp\fR scheme specifies an FTP server for the archive.  APT's FTP
behavior is highly configurable; for more information see the
\fIapt.conf\fR(5) manual page.  Please note that a ftp proxy can be
specified by using the "ftp_proxy" environment variable.  It is possible to
specify a http proxy (http proxy servers often understand ftp urls) using
this method and ONLY this method.  ftp proxies using http specified in the
configuration file will be ignored.

.TP
\fBcopy\fR
The \fBcopy\fR scheme is identical to the \fBfile\fR scheme except that
packages are copied into the cache directory instead of used directly at
their location. This is useful for people using a zip disk to copy files
around with APT.

.TP
\fBrsh\fR
See below.

.TP
\fBssh\fR
The \fBrsh\fR/\fBssh\fR method invokes rsh/ssh to connect to a remote host
as a given user and access the files.  No password authentication is 
possible, prior arrangements with RSA keys or rhosts must have been made.
Access to files on the remote uses standard \fBfind\fR(1) and \fBdd\fR(P) 
commands to perform the file transfers from the remote.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
Repomd entries for Fedora Core, Extras and Updates using variable
substitution, assumes \fIApt::DistroVerPkg\fR is set to "fedora-release":
.IP
.nf
repomd http://download.fedora.redhat.com/pub/ fedora/linux/core/$(VERSION)/$(ARCH)/os/
repomd http://download.fedora.redhat.com/pub/ fedora/linux/extras/$(VERSION)/$(ARCH)/
repomd http://download.fedora.redhat.com/pub/ fedora/linux/core/updates/$(VERSION)/$(ARCH)/
.fi

.LP
Local mirror (local disk, NFS mounted etc) of Fedora Core at 
\fI/var/www/html/fedora/\fR
.IP
.nf
repomd file:/var/www/html fedora/linux/core/$(VERSION)/$(ARCH)/
.fi

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
\fBapt-cache\fR(8) \fIapt.conf\fR(5)

.SH "BUGS"
Reporting bugs in APT-RPM is best done in the APT-RPM mailinglist at
http://apt-rpm.org/mailinglist.shtml.

.SH "AUTHOR"
Maintainer and contributor information can be found in the credits page
http://apt-rpm.org/about.shtml of APT-RPM.
