.TH "VENDORS.LIST" 5 "14 Jun 2006" "APT-RPM" "vendors.list"
.SH NAME
vendors.list - Security key configuration for APT

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The package vendor list contains a list of all vendors from whom you wish to
 authenticate  downloaded  packages.  For each vendor listed, it must contain
the corresponding PGP key fingerprint, so that  APT  can  perform  signature
verification  of the release file and subsequent checking of the checksums
of each  downloaded  package.  To have authentication enabled, you must add
the vendor identification string  (see  below) enclosed in square braces to
the \fIsources.list\fR(5) line for all sites that mirror the repository
provided by that vendor.
.LP
The format of this file is similar  to  the  one  used  by \fIapt.conf\fR(5).  
It consists of an arbitrary number of blocks of vendors, where each block
starts with a string telling the \fBkey_type\fR and the \fBvendor_id\fR.
.LP
Some vendors may have multiple blocks that define different security
policies for their distributions.  Debian for instance uses a different
signing methodology for stable and unstable releases.
.LP
\fBkey_type\fR is the type of the check required.  Currently, there is only
one type available which is \fIsimple-key\fR.
.LP
\fBvendor_id\fR is the vendor identification string.  It is an arbitrary
string you must supply to uniquely identify a vendor that's listed in this
file.
.LP
Example:
.IP
.nf
simple-key "joe"
{
   Fingerprint "0987AB4378FSD872343298787ACC";
   Name "Joe Shmoe <joe@shmoe.com>";
}						    
.fi

.SH "THE SIMPLE-KEY TYPE"
This type of verification is used when the vendor has a single secured key
that must be used to sign the Release file.  The following items should be
present

.TP
\fBFingerprint\fR
The PGP fingerprint for the key.  The fingerprint should be expressed in the
standard notion with or without spaces.  The \fB--fingerprint\fR option for
\fBgpg\fR(1) will show the fingerprint for the selected keys(s).

.TP
\fBName\fR
A string containing a description of the owner of the  key  or vendor.   You
may put the vendor name and email.  The string must be entirely within
double-quotes (\fB"\fR).

.SH "FILES"
\fI/etc/apt/vendors.list\fR

.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fIsources.list\fR(5)

.SH "BUGS"
Reporting bugs in APT-RPM is best done in the APT-RPM mailinglist at
http://apt-rpm.org/mailinglist.shtml.

.SH "AUTHOR"
Maintainer and contributor information can be found in the credits page
http://apt-rpm.org/about.shtml of APT-RPM.
